# Music-Generation-Using-NLP
As my graduation project, I processed classical piano pieces using NLP techniques and trained a Transformer model that continues a given part of music in an original way while maintaining the harmony with the given part. This is an experimental project to see if NLP and Transformers are able to understand and generate the music as if it is some kind of a language. Of course there is a trade-off. Representing music, which is continuous by its nature, in a discrete way reduces the quality of the data and causes information loss. However, it makes it possible to use the Transformer architecture and take advantage of its success in generating natural language, to generate music. 

MEASTRO (MIDI and Audio Edited for Synchronous TRacks and Organization) dataset, which consists of 200+ hours of piano performances of famous composers like Beethoven, Mozart etc., were used in the project. The dataset was specifically chosen since a piano piece is more suitable to be represented in a discrete way when compared to other instruments. I iterated over the instructions in the MIDI files and wrote them into .csv files, since they are easier to handle. Test, train, and validation corpuses and csv files can be found under the test, train and validation folders, respectively. 

Within the scope of the project, notes and any combination of notes (chords) were considered words. They were subjected to tokenization and word embeddings processes as if it is an NLP task. I tried various combinations for the number of preceding and following notes/chords and decided to use a window of (50, 50). So the model tries to predict the next 50 notes/chords given the previous 50 notes/chords. I also defined several prediction functions to introduce randomness and creativity to model's generations. Below, is the one of the best generations of the one of the models I trained. The model was trained with a window size of (50, 3). The first 8 seconds were given to the model and the rest of it was generated by the model.

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d41c8340-e2b1-478a-965f-b1fad0973ffe

